[tutorial] Rewrite the styles section (#10929)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/tutorial/part-two/index.md

<!--
  - Global styles
  - Component css
  - CSS-in-JS
  - CSS Modules

-->

Welcome to part two of the Gatsby tutorial!

## What's in this tutorial?

In this part, you're going to explore options for styling Gatsby websites and dive deeper into using React components for building sites.

## Using global styles

Every site has some sort of global style. This includes things like the site's
typography and background colors. These styles set the overall feel of the
site—much like the color and texture of a wall sets the overall feel of a room.

### Creating global styles with standard CSS files

One of the most straightforward ways to add global styles to a site is using a global `.css` stylesheet.

#### ✋ Create a new Gatsby site

Start by creating a new Gatsby site. It may be best (especially if you're new to the command line) to close the terminal windows you used for [part one](/tutorial/part-one/), and start a new terminal session for part two.

Open a new terminal window, create a new "hello world" gatsby site, and start the development server:

```shell
gatsby new tutorial-part-two https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
cd tutorial-part-two

> gatsby develop

Reviewer: I don't think we want to start it just yet, do we? They'll need to restart for `gatsby-browser.js` to pick up the changes.

Author: So... I also thought that was the case, but I tested it, and it doesn't need a restart.

│       └── index.js
```

#### ✋ Add styles to a css file

1. Create a `.css` file in your new project:

```shell
cd src
mkdir styles
cd styles
touch global.css
```

> > Note: You'll need to either stop or restart the running development server, or open a second terminal window. Also, feel free to create these directories and files using your code editor, if you'd prefer.

Reviewer: If we don't have them start the server, this can be dropped.

Author: It's not that -- This has to do with the continuance from part one.

Author: Yes, we do. But the dev server from the part one could still be running. we're trying to avoid that. Really this note should be moved to where the new starter is cloned.

You should now have a structure like this:

```text
├── package.json
├── src
│   └── pages
│       └── index.js
│   └── styles
│       └── global.css
```

2. Define some styles in the `global.css` file:

```css:title=src/styles/global.css
html {
  background-color: lavenderblush;
  color: rebeccapurple;
}
```

> Note: The placement of the example css file in a `/src/styles/` folder is arbitrary.

#### ✋ Include the stylesheet in `gatsby-browser.js`

1. Create the `gatsby-browser.js`

```shell
cd ../..
touch gatsby-browser.js
```

Your project's file structure should now look like this:

```text
├── package.json
├── src
│   └── pages
│       └── index.js
│   └── styles
│       └── global.css
├── gatsby-browser.js
```

> > 💡 What is `gatsby-browser.js`? Don't worry about this too much for now -- For now, know that `gatsby-browser.js` is one of a handful of special files that Gatsby looks for, and uses (if they exist). Here, the naming of the file **is** important.

Reviewer: Should we link to [browser APIs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/browser-apis/) here in case they want to dig deeper?

Author: I debated. I can go either way. I didn't think that was a productive rabbit hole at this juncture, but why not open the hatch.

2. Import your recently-created stylesheet in the `gatsby-browser.js` file:

```javascript:title=gatsby-browser.js
import "./src/styles/global.css"

// or:
// require('./src/styles/global.css')
```

> > Note: You can use Node.js `require` or `import` syntax. If you're not sure of the difference, just pick one.

Reviewer: Added a little bit of extra info and made a recommendation instead of putting the choice on the reader.

```suggestion
> Note: Both CommonJS (`require`) and ES Module (`import`) syntax work here. If you’re not sure which to choose, we use `import` most of the time.
```

> If you take a look another look at your "hello world" project site, you should see your global css changes applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you take a look another look at your "hello world" project site, you should see your global CSS changes applied.
```

Reviewer: Also: should we include an image for posterity?

Author: We absolutely should -- I didn't want to do the screenshots until the content was sewn up (see top-level PR comment)

)
```

> > Tip: Generally, if you use a component in multiple places on a site, it should be in its own module file in the `components` directory. But, if it's used only in one file, create it inline.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this tip. Might spark some bikeshedding, and could also add to overwhelm ("I have to think about _that_, too?!").

Author: I relocated it, it was already there. Personally I think it's useful -- if someone is like "wait why is it in the same file? i haven't seen that in other places!"

what we could do is remove the "suggestion" element, and just say you can do it multiple ways.

The finished page should now look like:

![css-modules-final](css-modules-final.png)

### CSS-in-JS

CSS-in-JS is a component-oriented styling approach. Most generally, it is a pattern where [CSS is composed inline using JavaScript](https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-styling.html#what-is-css-in-js).

#### Using CSS-in-JS with Gatsby

> There are many different CSS-in-JS libraries, and many of them have Gatsby plugins already. We won't cover an example of CSS-in-JS in this initial tutorial, but we encourage you to [explore](/docs/styling/) what the ecosystem has to offer. There are mini-tutorials for two libraries in particular, [Glamor](/docs/glamor/) and [Styled Components](/docs/styled-components/).

Reviewer: We need an Emotion tutorial. ☹️ 👩‍🎤

Author: I was thinking this as I was doing this rewrite. I'm on a roll, I might go ahead and do it.

That reminds me, something on the todo i need to add is some tweaks to some of the related style docs.
